+++
title = "Winter meetup 2025"
date = "2025-02-26"
[taxonomies]
tags = ["liip"]
+++

Talks:
{{ toc() }}

# Sulu in 2025 – Modern Content Management with Smart AI Integration
 
Sulu is a powerful, open-source CMS built on Symfony, known for its flexibility and
developer-friendly features.

In this talk, I will give an overview of what Sulu is, how it is used in real-world projects,
and why it’s a great choice for complex web applications.

Looking ahead to 2025, Sulu is introducing exciting updates: a new, more powerful content
repository and AI integration.

These new features will make working with content faster and smarter, with tools like
automated text suggestions and smart SEO improvements.

Whether you are a developer, content manager, or decision-maker, this talk will show how
Sulu is evolving and what new opportunities it brings for the future of content management.

Johannes Wachter has been part of the Sulu team since the very first commit in 2013.
He manages client projects and contributes to various internal developments, focusing on
creating flexible and efficient solutions with Symfony and Sulu.
Over the years, he has been involved in integrating various new technologies to enhance
content management workflows.
Besides his work at Sulu, Johannes shares his knowledge as a university lecturer, teaching
web technologies and modern development practices.

- Presented by: Johannes Wachter
- Slides: [sulu-in-2025.pdf](../2025-02-sulu-in-2025.pdf)

# SEAL: Dive into the sea of search engines

The world of search engines is big – a lot of different terms exist, what makes it really hard
to understand what is going on.

Beside the widely used Elasticsearch, nowadays there are lots of alternatives like Meilisearch,
Algolia, Redisearch, Loupe and others.
Here I will introduce SEAL the Search Engine Abstraction Layer.
What flysystem is for file storages and doctrine DBAL for databases, SEAL is for search engines.
SEAL will give you a generic interface to communicate with different search engines.

In this talk I will give an introduction to the search topic and what I found out in my research
about search engines, how SEAL the Search Engine Abstraction Layer for PHP was born and which search
engines are supported.
Can we demystify the technical search engine jargon into an understandable friendly configuration
for everybody?

- Presented by: [Alexander Schranz](https://mastodon.social/@alex_s_)
- Slides: [SEAL-dive-into-the-sea-of-search-engines.pdf](../2025-02-SEAL-dive-into-the-sea-of-search-engines.pdf)
